=Conditional Statements=

One of the most useful features of the HLAKit language is the ability to use conditional statements. They simplify and speed up coding, greatly enhance code readability, and alleviate the need for labels, creating structured code.

The majority of conditional branches in assembly language tend to be straight forward jumps calling for useless labels. The labels names are irrelevant, and cause the code to lose structure and become tedious. However, HLAKit supports if, else, while, do while, forever and switch/case expressions! Written as "while(no carry) {" and such, they do not impede the assembly language in any form, or make the code any less efficient than manual branch opcodes+labels.

The keywords near and far can be used as well on target CPU's and/or platforms where that makes sense. For instance, the 6502 CPU only allows conditional branches to use 8 bit operands, so the jumps can only be within -128 and +127 of the opcode. Normally to overcome this, one would then need to create an extra label, use the opposite comparative branch, and then write in an absolute jump. This adds to unnecessarily tedious coding. HLAKit allows the use of conditional branches with 16 bit operands, and automatically writes the extra code!

== Condition Statements ==

====The Syntax====
{{{
#!c
type ( [near/far] [is/has/no/not] condition )
}}}

|=Conditions|=6502 Opcodes|
|plus|BPL|
|positive|BPL|
|greater|BPL|
|minus|BMI|
|negative|BMI|
|less|BMI|
|overflow|BVC|
|carry|BCS|
|nonzero|BNE|
|set|BNE|
|true|BNE|
|1|BNE|
|equal|BEQ|
|zero|BEQ|
|false|BEQ|
|unset|BNE|
|clear|BNE|
|0|BNE|

====Examples====
{{{
#!c
lda scrollTo.flags
if(set) 
{
    compare_16_16(screen.y, scrollTo.y)
    if(not equal) 
    {
        GetScrollTODiv(screen.y, scrollTo.y)
        if(carry) 
        {
            ScrollUp()
        } 
        else 
        {
            if(no carry)
            ScrollDown()
        }
    }
}
}}}

It is important to remember that branches are usually taken on the opposite case of what you write in the code.  For instance, in the example above, the {{{lda scrollTo.flags}}} line will set the zero flag to 1 if the value loaded was non-zero, otherwise the zero flag is 0.  The {{{if(set)}}} branch test means that we want the body of the if block to execute if the zero flag is 1, otherwise, jump to the end of the block if it is 0.

The code that gets emitted on the 6502 is {{{bne LABEL}}}.  The {{{bne}}} opcode means to branch when the zero flag is 0.  The zero flag will be 1 if the value loaded was nonzero (i.e. the value was "set").

The table of branch tests above lists the 6502 opcode used for each branch test.

==If Statements==

Use an if statement to implement a conditional statement.

====The Syntax====
{{{
#!c
if ( conditional expression )
{
    // code block 1
}
// Optionally...
else
{
    // code block 2
}
}}}

If conditional expression evaluates to be true, code block 1 is executed, otherwise it is skipped. If an else is appended to the if statement and conditional expression evaluates to be false, code block 2 is executed.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
assign( player.joypad, #0 )
poll_joystick0()
and #BUTTON_B
if(set) 
{
    or( player.joypad, #BUTTON_UP )
} 
else 
{
    and_8( player.joypad, #~BUTTON_UP )
}
}}}

== While Statements ==

Use a while statement to implement a conditional loop.

====The Syntax====
{{{
#!c
while ( conditional expression )
{
    // code block
}
}}}

With a while expression, code block is continually executed until conditional expression evaluates to be FALSE.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
poll_joystick0()
while(set) 
{
    // do stuff
    poll_joystick0()
}
}}}

== Do While Statements ==

Use a do while statement to implement a conditional loop.

====The Syntax====
{{{
#!c
do
{
    // code block
} while ( conditional expression )
}}}

With a do while statement, code block is executed once. If conditional expression evaluates to be TRUE, code block 1 is executed again, and continually until conditional expression evaluates to be FALSE.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
inline vblank_wait()
{
    do
        lda PPU.STATUS
    while(is plus)
}
}}}


== Forever Statements ==

Use a forever statement to implement an infinite loop.

====The Syntax====
{{{
#!c
forever
{
    // code block
}
}}}

With a forever statement, code block is executed continually until a return keyword, jump opcode which jumps outside of the block is encountered, or the NES is reset.

It is also very useful in debugging. Upon an invalid game state, you can execute an empty forever loop to create a break point in the emulator.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
// an empty forver loop
forever{}

// a forever loop for game execution
interrupt main()
{
    // initialize game
    forever 
    {
        // do game  
    }
}
}}}

==Switch/Case Statements==

Use the switch statement to pass control to a case which matches the result of register. If no case satisfies the condition, the default case is executed.

====The Syntax====
{{{
#!c
switch ( register ) // REG.A, REG.X, or REG.Y
{
    case number 1
        code block 1

    case number 2
        code block 2

    default
        code block 3
}
}}}

====Examples====
{{{
#!c
ldx avalue
switch ( reg.x )
{
    case #12
    { 
        // braces needed, multiple lines
        lda #23
        ora somevar
    }
    case #34
        lda #123 // no braces needed, single line

    default
    {
        lda #0
    }
}
}}}