=Lynx .lnx Header=

==Cart==

Preprocessor settings for specifying the block and bank size, as well as if the ROM has an EEPROM and what type it is.  Add a setting for specifying the initial value of AUDIOIN pin.

**#lnx.page_size_bank0**

The Lynx has two different registers by which you can read cart data.  If you read from $FCB2 then the CART0/ line on the cart bus will be used to strobe the read.  We call the memory accessed with the CART0/ strobe "bank 0".  This setting specifies how large each segment is.  Valid values are: 256, 512, 1K, and 2K.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#lnx.page_size_bank0 2K
}}}

**#lnx.page_size_bank1**

This specifies how large each segment is in "bank 1" of the Lynx cart.  Valid values are: 256, 512, 1K, and 2K.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#lnx.page_size_bank1 512
}}}

**#lnx.version**

This specifies which version of the .lnx file format to use.  Currently all known Lynx ROMs are stored in version 1 .lnx files.  There is a proposal for a version 2 that is specified here: http://www.classicgamedev.com/Lynx:LNXv2_File_Format

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#lnx.version 1
}}}

**#lnx.cart_name**

Every Lynx ROM has a name.  This is how you set it.  This is a string that can be up to 32 characters long.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#lnx.cart_name "My Game"
}}}

**#lnx.manufacturer_name**

This is the name of the creator/manufacturer of the game (e.g. "Atari").  This is a string that can be up to 16 characters long.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#lnx.manufacturer_name "My Game Studio"
}}}

**#lnx.rotation**

This specifies if the game is to be played in rotated mode.  Games can have "none", "left", and "right" rotation.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#lnx.rotation "none"
}}}

==Misc==

**#lnx.off**

Normally, HLAKit will put a standard .lnx file header on any Lynx ROM binary image it creates.  This option turns off outputting a header.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#lnx.off
}}}