[[[
===Interrupt Vectors===

The 6502 CPU support three interrupt vectors that are store in the CPU RAM, in most cases at the top of memory.  The three interrupt vectors are:

**Start** -- The function run when the CPU comes out of reset.

**NMI** -- The function run on the non-maskable interrupt which is triggered by a state change on the NMI interrupt pin.  Different platforms use this for different purposes.

**IRQ** -- The function run when the software interrupt occurs.  In most cases this is driven by a configurable timer but there are platforms that use it differently.

The HLAKit 6502 preprocessor supports directives that assign different functions to the interrupts.  In the final binary, pointers to the function will be stored in the proper memory locations for the interrupts.
]]]
[[[
===Vectors===

**#interrupt.start function**

The #interrupt.start directive specifies the function which the start (reset) interrupt vector should point to.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#interrupt.start main

interrupt main()
{
    // main code
}
}}}


**#interrupt.nmi function**

The #interrupt.nmi directive specifies the function which the non maskable interrupt vector should point to. 

On the NES, when a screen refresh is complete (vblank), the nmi interrupt function is executed. It is called on a 60hz basis on NTSC systems, and 50hz on PAL. It can be used for timing as well as writing to the video RAM. Writes to the video RAM outside of a vblank will usually cause serious problems with the graphics, so to write to it.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#interrupt.nmi vblank

interrupt vblank()
{
    // vblank code
}
}}}


**#interrupt.irq function**

The #interrupt.irq directive specifies the function which the interrupt request vector should point to. 

On the NES, mappers control the IRQ, and it is generally executed upon hblank (when a scanline is complete), but can be controlled to execute on any event the mapper needs.

On the Lynx, the IRQ is triggered by the configurable timer and is generally used for any regularly occurring event such as updating animations, sounds, and/or pumping an event system.

====Example====
{{{
#!c
#interrupt.irq irq

interrupt irq()
{
    // irq code
}
}}}
]]]